====================================================================================================
# 1.2.1  —  Encrypt System Disks with KMS or TPM methods
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
1.2

## [recommendation #]
1.2.1

## [title]
Encrypt System Disks with KMS or TPM methods

## [profile]
Level 1 - Server
Level 2 - Server

## [assessment status]
Automated

## [status]
draft

## [description]
It is possible to enable encryption for the STATE and EPHEMERAL partitions of the system disks at the OS level. The STATE partition contains the most sensitive node data: secrets and cluster certificates. The EPHEMERAL partition may contain sensitive workload data. Data is encrypted using LUKS2, which is provided by the Linux kernel modules and cryptsetup utility.

Talos Linux supports four encryption methods, which can be combined together for a single partition:

- static - encrypt with the static passphrase (weakest protection, for STATE partition encryption it means that the passphrase will be stored in the META partition, which is not encrypted, and thus can be trivially bypassed).
- nodeID - encrypt with the key derived from the node UUID (this protects against data being leaked or recovered from a drive that has been physically removed from a Talos Linux node, but does not protect the data from access in the same system.).
- kms - encrypt using a key sealed with a network KMS (strong, but requires network access to decrypt the data.)
- TPM - encrypt with the key derived from the hardware TPM (strong, when used with Secure Boot).

It is recommended to use KMS or TPM methods if available.


## [rationale statement]
Encrypting the partitions can prevent an attacker with physical access to the machine, or the ability to boot an alternate operating system remotely, from being able to retrieve data such as cluster certificates and other information that can be used to compromise a cluster.

## [impact statement]
If using a network KMS, then a node will be unable to boot if the KMS system is unreachable at the time of boot.

If a system is configured to use TPM encryption for the STATE partition without suitable TPM2.0 supporting hardware, it will fail during the install process with the message "failed to call key handler at slot 0: stat /dev/tpm0: no such file or directory", and then revert back to maintenance mode.

## [audit procedure]
Run the following commands and verify that the encryption key is present under spec for both STATE and EPHEMERAL volumes:

```
talosctl --nodes <IP> get volumeconfig STATE -o yaml
talosctl --nodes <IP> get volumeconfig EPHEMERAL -o yaml
```
The _keys_ entries should have values of _tpm_ or _kms_ in order to pass.
For example:
```
spec:
    encryption:
        provider: luks2
        keys:
            - slot: 0
              type: tpm
```

## [remediation procedure]
It is not possible to encrypt the STATE partition after Talos has been installed. It is recommended to set up encryption during the initial install of a Talos Linux machine.

#### Using Omni

The simplest way to enable disk encryption is if Omni is in use to manage the Talos Linux machines. In this case, simply specify the check-box "Encrypt Disks", under Cluster Features, when creating the cluster in the Omni UI. All nodes that join the cluster will have encryption enabled, using Omni as the KMS. This can also be achieved using cluster templates, by setting:
```
features:
 diskencryption: true
```
#### via Machine Configurations
If using SecureBoot, apply the following patch to enable TPM based disk encryption:
```
# tpm-disk-encryption.yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: VolumeConfig
name: STATE
encryption:
  provider: luks2
  keys:
    - tpm: {}
      slot: 0
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: VolumeConfig
name: EPHEMERAL
encryption:
  provider: luks2
  keys:
    - tpm: {}
      slot: 0
```

Apply the following to enable a network KMS:
```
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: VolumeConfig
name: STATE
encryption:
  provider: luks2
  keys:
    - kms:
        endpoint: https://LOGGINGHOST:4443
      slot: 0
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: VolumeConfig
name: EPHEMERAL
encryption:
  provider: luks2
  keys:
    - kms:
        endpoint: https://LOGGINGHOST:4443
      slot: 0
```

## [default value]
Talos Linux will by default enable encryption of confidential data at rest stored in etcd, but does not enable encryption of data on the disk partitions by default.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Encrypt Sensitive Data at Rest CONTROL:v8 3.11 DESCRIPTION:Encrypt sensitive data at rest on servers, applications, and databases containing sensitive data. Storage-layer encryption, also known as server-side encryption, meets the minimum requirement of this Safeguard. Additional encryption methods may include application-layer encryption, also known as client-side encryption, where access to the data storage device(s) does not permit access to the plain-text data. ;TITLE:Encrypt Sensitive Information at Rest CONTROL:v7 14.8 DESCRIPTION:Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.;

## [v7 IG1]

## [v7 IG2]

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624265

## [additional information]
