====================================================================================================
# 2.1  —  Ensure NTP is configured
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
2

## [recommendation #]
2.1

## [title]
Ensure NTP is configured

## [profile]
Level 1 - Server

## [assessment status]
Automated

## [status]
draft

## [description]
The Talos Linux daemon `machined` implements the Network Time Protocol (NTP). NTP is designed to synchronize system clocks across a variety of systems and use a source that is highly accurate.

## [rationale statement]
Proper configuration of NTP is vital to ensuring time synchronization is working properly. By default, Talos Linux installs with a single time server referenced, which is currently `time.cloudflare.com`.

## [impact statement]

## [audit procedure]
Run the following command and verify that at least two time servers are configured:

```
# talosctl get TimeServer -o yaml

node: 192.168.64.118
metadata:
 namespace: network
 type: TimeServerStatuses.net.talos.dev
 id: timeservers
 version: 3
 owner: network.TimeServerSpecController
 phase: running
 created: 2024-06-04T04:05:47Z
 updated: 2024-06-05T17:50:14Z
spec:
 timeServers:
 - 2.pool.ntp.org
 - time.cloudflare.com

```

The synchronization status of the system can be checked with:
```
#talosctl get timestatus -o yaml
node: 192.168.64.118
metadata:
 namespace: runtime
 type: TimeStatuses.v1alpha1.talos.dev
 id: node
 version: 20
 owner: time.SyncController
 phase: running
 created: 2024-06-04T04:05:47Z
 updated: 2024-06-05T14:45:14Z
spec:
 synced: true
 epoch: 18
 syncDisabled: false

```

## [remediation procedure]
Configure additional time servers as needed.

The following commands would add "2.pool.ntp.org" to the list of time servers.

Note that if the system is using the default time server, then defining a time server in the machine configuration will replace the default. (i.e. the operation below would replace the default time server, not append it to the list of time servers, if there is currently no time server specified in the machine configuration.)

Execute the following command to create a patch to update the time servers:
```
# cat <<EOF > time-servers.yaml
machine:
 time:
 servers:
 - 2.pool.ntp.org
EOF
```
Then apply the patch to the machine to activate the new configuration:
```
talosctl patch mc --patch @time-servers.yaml
```

## [default value]
If not configured with a time server, Talos Linux will use a single default time server. The default is `pool.ntp.org` in Talos versions lower than 1.7, and `time.cloudflare.com` in version 1.7 and later.

Note that the default time server is not visible in the machine configuration file, but can be inspected with the command:
```
talosctl get TimeServer -o yaml
node: 192.168.64.118
metadata:
 namespace: network
 type: TimeServerStatuses.net.talos.dev
 id: timeservers
 version: 3
 owner: network.TimeServerSpecController
 phase: running
 created: 2024-06-04T04:05:47Z
 updated: 2024-06-05T17:50:14Z
spec:
 timeServers:
 - time.cloudflare.com

```

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Standardize Time Synchronization CONTROL:v8 8.4 DESCRIPTION:Standardize time synchronization. Configure at least two synchronized time sources across enterprise assets, where supported.;TITLE:Utilize Three Synchronized Time Sources CONTROL:v7 6.1 DESCRIPTION:Use at least three synchronized time sources from which all servers and network devices retrieve time information on a regular basis so that timestamps in logs are consistent.;

## [v7 IG1]

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624267

## [additional information]
