====================================================================================================
# 5.3.1.1  —  Apply an appropriate control plane firewall policy
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
5.3.1

## [recommendation #]
5.3.1.1

## [title]
Apply an appropriate control plane firewall policy

## [profile]
Level 2 - Server

## [assessment status]
Manual

## [status]
draft

## [description]
A default deny all policy on connections to control plane nodes ensures that any unconfigured network usage will be rejected.

## [rationale statement]
Only trusted networks should be allowed to access Kubernetes and other APIs.

## [impact statement]
Restricting network access to services may make troubleshooting and remediation of issues more complex. For example, if remote access to `etcd` is not enabled, certain diagnosis and management commands may not be available.

Incorrect configuration of the Ingress Policy can result in a non-accessible cluster or Talos Linux API. The configuration should be applied in `--mode=try` to ensure it is reverted in the case of a mistake.

## [audit procedure]
This will display the currently active ingress firewall policy and rules, if any.
```
talosctl --nodes <IP> get mc v1alpha1 -o yaml | yq .spec | yq 'select(.kind == "NetworkDefaultActionConfig"),select(.kind == "NetworkRuleConfig")'
```

## [remediation procedure]
Note that this is an example policy only, which assumes there is no existing Ingress firewall configured, and provides the following restrictions:

- Talos Linux apid and Kubernetes API are accessible from anywhere
- kubelet and trustd APIs are only accessible within the cluster
- etcd API is limited to controlplane nodes

Note: Both the Talos API (port 50000) and Kubernetes API (port 6443) are configured to be accessible from any IP in this example. Restrict these subnets if your environment permits it. The Talos API is especially vulnerable in maintenance mode. If using Omni, the SideroLink interface provides an additional layer of protection for this endpoint.

In the example we assume these template variables to describe the cluster:

- `$CLUSTER_SUBNET`, e.g. `172.20.0.0/24` - the subnet which covers all machines in the cluster
- `$CP1`, `$CP2`, `$CP3` - the IP addresses of the controlplane nodes
- `$VXLAN_PORT` - the UDP port used by the CNI for encapsulated traffic

```
cat << EOF > controlplane-firewall.yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkDefaultActionConfig
ingress: block
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: kubelet-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 10250
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: apid-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 50000
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: 0.0.0.0/0
  - subnet: ::/0
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: trustd-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 50001
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: kubernetes-api-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 6443
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: 0.0.0.0/0
  - subnet: ::/0
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: etcd-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 2379-2380
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CP1/32
  - subnet: $CP2/32
  - subnet: $CP3/32
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: cni-vxlan
portSelector:
  ports:
    - $VXLAN_PORT
  protocol: udp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
EOF


talosctl patch mc --patch controlplane-firewall.yaml --mode=try
```

## [default value]
No ingress firewall is applied.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Implement and Manage a Firewall on Servers CONTROL:v8 4.4 DESCRIPTION:Implement and manage a firewall on servers, where supported. Example implementations include a virtual firewall, operating system firewall, or a third-party firewall agent.;TITLE:Apply Host-based Firewalls or Port Filtering CONTROL:v7 9.4 DESCRIPTION:Apply host-based firewalls or port filtering tools on end systems, with a default-deny rule that drops all traffic except those services and ports that are explicitly allowed.

## [v7 IG1]
X

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]
X

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624282

## [additional information]
