====================================================================================================
# 1.1.1  —  Install Talos with SecureBoot enabled
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
1.1

## [recommendation #]
1.1.1

## [title]
Install Talos with SecureBoot enabled

## [profile]
Level 2 - Server

## [assessment status]
Automated

## [status]
draft

## [description]
Secure Boot is a standard that ensures systems boot only to a trusted operating system.

Talos supports booting UEFI systems in SecureBoot mode. When combined with TPM-based disk encryption, this provides Trusted Boot experience.

**Note**: SecureBoot is not supported on x86 platforms in BIOS mode.

The implementation uses systemd-boot as a boot menu implementation, while the Talos kernel, initramfs and cmdline arguments are combined into the Unified Kernel Image (UKI) format. UEFI firmware loads the systemd-boot bootloader, which then loads the UKI image. Both systemd-boot and Talos UKI image are signed with the key, which is enrolled into the UEFI firmware.

As Talos Linux is fully contained in the UKI image, the full operating system is verified and booted by the UEFI firmware.

## [rationale statement]
Enabling SecureBoot ensures that only signed and validated Talos images are able to be loaded and, in conjunction with a TPM2 module, decrypt the disk.

## [impact statement]

## [audit procedure]
```
$ talosctl -n <IP> get securitystate

NODE NAMESPACE TYPE ID VERSION SECUREBOOT
 runtime SecurityState securitystate 1 true
```
Confirm that SECUREBOOT shows as *true*.

Note that the *--insecure* flag will be necessary if the system is not yet part of a Kubernetes cluster.

## [remediation procedure]
Ensure Talos Linux is installed and booted from images that support SecureBoot, as per the documentation:
[https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/install/bare-metal-platforms/secureboot](https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/install/bare-metal-platforms/secureboot)

Note that secureboot images signed by SideroLabs are available for all platforms, or enterprises may sign their own images. Additional steps are usually required with cloud provider platforms to register the Sidero signing keys.

## [default value]
The default depends on whether a secureboot image was used for initial installation.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Enable Anti-Exploitation Features CONTROL:v8 10.5 DESCRIPTION:Enable anti-exploitation features on enterprise assets and software, where possible, such as Microsoft® Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Windows® Defender Exploit Guard (WDEG), or Apple® System Integrity Protection (SIP) and Gatekeeper™.;TITLE:Enable Operating System Anti-Exploitation Features/ Deploy Anti-Exploit Technologies CONTROL:v7 8.3 DESCRIPTION:Enable anti-exploitation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP) or Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are available in an operating system or deploy appropriate toolkits that can be configured to apply protection to a broader set of applications and executables.;

## [v7 IG1]

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624264

## [additional information]
