====================================================================================================
# 5.3.2.1  —  Apply an appropriate worker node firewall policy
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
5.3.2

## [recommendation #]
5.3.2.1

## [title]
Apply an appropriate worker node firewall policy

## [profile]
Level 2 - Server

## [assessment status]
Manual

## [status]
draft

## [description]
A default "deny all" policy on connections to worker nodes ensures that any unconfigured network usage will be rejected.

## [rationale statement]
Only trusted networks should be allowed to access Kubernetes and other APIs.

## [impact statement]
Incorrect configuration of the Ingress Policy can result in a non-accessible cluster or Talos Linux API. The configuration should be applied in `--mode=try` to ensure it is reverted in the case of a mistake.

Incorrect configuration can render application deployments on the worker nodes unreachable.

## [audit procedure]
This will display the currently active ingress firewall policy and rules, if any:
```
talosctl --nodes <IP> get mc v1alpha1 -o yaml | yq .spec | yq 'select(.kind == "NetworkDefaultActionConfig"),select(.kind == "NetworkRuleConfig")'
```

## [remediation procedure]
Note that this is an example policy only, which assumes there is no existing Ingress firewall configured, and provides the following restrictions:

- Talos Linux apid and kubelet API are accessible only from within the cluster. (Control plane nodes are used as endpoints to terminate `talosctl` commands, and will relay API requests to the workers.)

The example assumes these template variables to describe the cluster:

- `$CLUSTER_SUBNET`, e.g. `172.20.0.0/24` - the subnet which covers all machines in the cluster
- `$VXLAN_PORT` - the UDP port used by the CNI for encapsulated traffic

```
cat << EOF > worker-firewall.yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkDefaultActionConfig
ingress: block
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: kubelet-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 10250
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: apid-ingress
portSelector:
  ports:
    - 50000
  protocol: tcp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
---
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: NetworkRuleConfig
name: cni-vxlan
portSelector:
  ports:
    - $VXLAN_PORT
  protocol: udp
ingress:
  - subnet: $CLUSTER_SUBNET
EOF

talosctl patch mc --patch worker-firewall.yaml --mode=try
```

## [default value]
No ingress firewall is applied.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Implement and Manage a Firewall on Servers CONTROL:v8 4.4 DESCRIPTION:Implement and manage a firewall on servers, where supported. Example implementations include a virtual firewall, operating system firewall, or a third-party firewall agent.;TITLE:Apply Host-based Firewalls or Port Filtering CONTROL:v7 9.4 DESCRIPTION:Apply host-based firewalls or port filtering tools on end systems, with a default-deny rule that drops all traffic except those services and ports that are explicitly allowed.;

## [v7 IG1]
X

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]
X

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624283

## [additional information]
