====================================================================================================
# 5.4.1  —  Enable KubeSpan where network level encryption is required
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
5.4

## [recommendation #]
5.4.1

## [title]
Enable KubeSpan where network level encryption is required

## [profile]
Level 1 - Server

## [assessment status]
Manual

## [status]
draft

## [description]
KubeSpan securely and transparently establishes full encryption between all members of a cluster – even if they are running on completely different networks and behind firewalls. All cluster members will find each other, and automatically update reachability information.

KubeSpan operates outside of Kubernetes. It works with any CNI, and even if Kubernetes is not ready or broken.

KubeSpan provides full Wireguard based encryption for all traffic with the Kubernetes cluster, automatically.

KubeSpan uses UDP port 51820 to carry all KubeSpan encrypted traffic.
Thus best practice is to ensure that one end of all possible node-node communication paths allows UDP port 51820, inbound.

KubeSpan adds no value in a single node cluster.

## [rationale statement]
Encryption of network traffic provides defense against untrusted networks or bad actors with access to the physical network infrastructure. Ensuring traffic is encrypted prevents such actors obtaining confidential information such as security tokens, certificates, or passwords.

## [impact statement]
Enabling Wireguard encryption adds overhead and reduces network throughput.

## [audit procedure]
Ensure each node reports a KubeSpan identity:
```
talosctl get kubespanidentities 
NODE NAMESPACE TYPE ID VERSION
ADDRESS PUBLICKEY
192.168.64.118 kubespan KubeSpanIdentity local 1 
fdbc:4650:47f9:5902:c6c:8ff:fe6d:ca1c/128 8/0Xz4C8twGaEUIf3CZPj9/wXpPsTeNI5NArhurRpWY=
```

You can also examine the status of the nodes KubeSpan peers:
```
talosctl get kubespanpeerstatuses
ID VERSION LABEL 
ENDPOINT STATE RX TX
06D9QQOydzKrOL7oeLiqHy9OWE8KtmJzZII2A5/FLFI= 63 talos-default-controlplane-2 
172.20.0.3:51820 up 15043220 17869488

THtfKtfNnzJs1nMQKs5IXqK0DFXmM//0WMY+NnaZrhU= 62 talos-default-controlplane-3 
172.20.0.4:51820 up 14573208 18157680

nVHu7l13uZyk0AaI1WuzL2/48iG8af4WRv+LWmAax1M= 60 talos-default-worker-2 
172.20.0.6:51820 up 130072 46888
```

## [remediation procedure]
To enable KubeSpan for a new cluster, we can use the `--with-kubespan` flag in `talosctl gen config` to generate the appropriate configurations.

To enable KubeSpan on each node in an existing cluster:
Create a patch file with the machine configuration to enable KubeSpan:

```
cat <<EOF > kubespanPatch.yaml
machine:
 network:
 kubespan:
 enabled: true
cluster:
 discovery:
 enabled: true
EOF
```
Apply the patch to the nodes:
```
talosctl patch mc --patch @kubespanPatch.yaml 

```

## [default value]
KubeSpan is not enabled by default.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Encrypt Sensitive Data in Transit CONTROL:v8 3.10 DESCRIPTION:Encrypt sensitive data in transit. Example implementations can include: Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Open Secure Shell (OpenSSH).;TITLE:Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit CONTROL:v7 14.4 DESCRIPTION:Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.;

## [v7 IG1]

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]
https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/network/kubespan/

## [Workbench ID]
4624284

## [additional information]
