====================================================================================================
# 6.1.1  —  Ensure kernel logging is configured to send logs to a remote service.
====================================================================================================

## [section #]
6.1

## [recommendation #]
6.1.1

## [title]
Ensure kernel logging is configured to send logs to a remote service.

## [profile]
Level 1 - Server

## [assessment status]
Automated

## [status]
draft

## [description]
Ensures that kernel logs are pushed to a remote endpoint, for better forensic correlation and to protect against local loss.

## [rationale statement]
Kernel logs can be used for auditing and detecting security events.

## [impact statement]

## [audit procedure]
Run the following command and verify that kernel logging is configured:

```
talosctl --nodes <IP> get mc v1alpha1 -o yaml | yq .spec | yq 'select(.kind == "KmsgLogConfig")'

talosctl get cmdline | grep 'talos.logging.kernel'
```

If logging is configured, representative output will look like:

```
talos.logging.kernel=tcp://LOGGINGHOST:5044/
```
or

```
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: KmsgLogConfig
name: remote-log
url: udp://LOGGINGHOST:5044/
```

Depending on the method used to configure logging. **LOGGINGHOST** will be the configured IP of the log receiver.

Note that it is possible to configure kernel logging in two ways, hence the use of two commands in the above test.

## [remediation procedure]
The following commands would configure kernel logging.

Create a patch to enable logging:

```
cat <<EOF > kernel-logging.yaml
machine:
  install:
    extraKernelArgs:
      - talos.logging.kernel=tcp://LOGGINGHOST:5044/
EOF
```

Then apply the patch to the machines:

```
talosctl patch mc --patch kernel-logging.yaml
```

**Note**: `extraKernelArgs` are only applied on Talos upgrades, not immediately on config apply. To apply this change, upgrade the node to the same or newer version after patching:

```
talosctl upgrade --nodes <IP> --image ghcr.io/siderolabs/installer:<version>
```

Alternatively, kernel logging can be configured immediately without a reboot using the `KmsgLogConfig` document:

```
cat <<EOF > kernel-logging.yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha1
kind: KmsgLogConfig
name: remote-log
url: tcp://LOGGINGHOST:5044/
EOF

talosctl patch mc --patch @kernel-logging.yaml
```
## [default value]
Remote shipping of kernel logs is not enabled.

## [CIS Controls]
TITLE:Collect Audit Logs CONTROL:v8 8.2 DESCRIPTION:Collect audit logs. Ensure that logging, per the enterprise’s audit log management process, has been enabled across enterprise assets.;TITLE:Collect Detailed Audit Logs CONTROL:v8 8.5 DESCRIPTION:Configure detailed audit logging for enterprise assets containing sensitive data. Include event source, date, username, timestamp, source addresses, destination addresses, and other useful elements that could assist in a forensic investigation.;TITLE:Activate audit logging CONTROL:v7 6.2 DESCRIPTION:Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.;TITLE:Enable Detailed Logging CONTROL:v7 6.3 DESCRIPTION:Enable system logging to include detailed information such as an event source, date, user, timestamp, source addresses, destination addresses, and other useful elements.;

## [v7 IG1]
X

## [v7 IG2]
X

## [v7 IG3]
X

## [v8 IG1]
X

## [v8 IG2]
X

## [v8 IG3]
X

## [MITRE ATT&CK Mappings]

## [CCE-ID]

## [references]

## [Workbench ID]
4624268

## [additional information]
